---
layout: default
title: Proposal
---

# Self-Assessment
<h1>ENC Final: Self-Assessment</h6>

<ul>
   <li><h3>What assignment are you most proud of? Why? What did you learn by completing it?</h3>
      <br>The assignment I'm the most proud of is definitely my resume. I've been working on many of the things on my resume since I was still in middle school, so I think it reflects very well on me. A while ago, I applied for an internship using my resume from this class and an adapted version of my cover letter. I didn't end up getting the internship, but everyone I showed my resume to before submitting my application told me it was extremely impressive and very well written. By completing this assignment, I learned more about how to structure and write a resume in the first place. I was always confused about what information should go where, how I should decide what information ended up on my resume, and other things that the classes I'd taken previously never fully explained in a way I could understand. This class laid everything up the clearest I've seen it, and I feel much more confident in my ability to write and edit a well structured and written resume after doing this assignment.</li>
   <li><h3>What are your key strengths as a communicator? What is one area you want/need to continue developing?</h3>
      <br>My key strengths as a communicator are my ability to put things into terms others can understand better and my insistence on always keeping matters as fair as possible. When I'm explaining things to people, I use a lot of analogies to things I know they understand already to make the explanation make more sense. I've been told this makes things a lot easier to understand, especially when it comes to topics like math and science. I also am very insistent on making sure when an issue arises, the end compromise is fair to every party involved. It makes me upset when a solution favors one party over another, a quality that helps me end conflicts when they come up during group work.<br>
      One area I need to continue developing is my ability to speak up when necessary. It's not an issue when communicating through means such as emails or text, but it becomes a more pressing matter when the project requires face-to-face communication. I was frequently interrupted by the people around me as a child due to my stutter, so eventually I quit speaking unless spoken to all together. I've been through years of speech therapy, so my speech is much more fluent that it was when I was younger, but I still have a good amount of trouble speaking to people due to this. This is an issue, as it can possibly inhibit a project required quick and complete communication, so it's something I want and need to continue working on and developing.</li>
   <li><h3>How will you apply what you learned-whether in future classes, your current or future career, or real-world communication tasks?</h3>
      <br>I will apply what I've learned in this class in future endeavors by using the resources I've been provided with to help me communicate clearly. I have a tendency to overexplain things, so the course focusing on including all the needed information while still being brief and easy to understand in assignments such as the cover letter and resume is something I'll be applying to my future career. Additionally, the replies done for the discussion posts forced me to go out of my comfort zone and actually engage with my peers, which is again something I'll be applying to my future classes as well as my future career. I typically type like I speak, which can be a bit difficult to understand or too casual. As such, assignments like the instructions and the proposal were very useful in practicing typing and speaking more professionally, which is something I'll apply to future communication tasks and my future career.</li>
</ul>
